# ML-price-optimisation-based-on-price-elasticity
ML price optimisation based on price elasticity using linear regression
Machine Learning project for Retail Price Optimization In this machine learning pricing project, we implement a retail price optimization algorithm using regression trees. This is one of the first steps to building a dynamic pricing model. Being minful of the various pricing strategies costr plus pricing, competiton based pricing, perceived value pricing, demand based pricing, price elasticity. Question do you want to increase sales, footfall, revenue or profit. This case is focused on increasing profit. Our first step will be looking at sales data to take first step - now products have a property call price elasticity and they are either elastic (purchase patterns chnage dependent on price) or inelastic (sales are not that effected by the price changes these tend to be luxury goods and necessary items). This case study is based on elastic priced products for which historic sales data can be leveraged

YOU WILL LEARN: Understanding the retail price optimization machine learning problem In depth understanding of price elasticity Settings for Jupyter notebook to enablefaster coding Importing Libraries Importing datasets and initial understanding with the help of visualizations Understanding business context with the help of data Combining data Making inferences from plots Learning to segregate data based on analysis Implementing model to identify price elasticity of items Creating generic code to identify price elasticity of all items Understand criteria to select model Walkthrough of price optimization for one product and visualizing the outputs Generic code for price optimization for all products

DESCRIPTION: Pricing a product is a crucial aspect in any business. A lot of thought process is put into it. There are different strategies to price different kinds of products. There are products whose sales are quite sensitive to their prices and as such a small change in their price can lead to noticeable change in their sales. While there are products whose sales are not much affected by their price - these tend to be either luxury items or necessities (like certain medicines). This machine learning retail price optimization project will focus on the former type of products.

Price elasticity of demand (Epd), or elasticity, is the degree to which the effective desire for something changes as its price changes. In general, people desire things less as those things become more expensive. However, for some products, the customers desire could drop sharply even with a little price increase, and for other products, it could stay almost the same even with a big price increase. Economists use the term elasticity to denote this sensitivity to price increases. More precisely, price elasticity gives the percentage change in quantity demanded when there is a one percent increase in price, holding everything else constant.

In this machine learning pricing optimization case study, we will take the data of a cafe and based on their past sales, identify the optimal prices for their items based on the price elasticity of the items. For each item, first the price elasticity will be calculated and then the optimal price will be figured. While this is taking a particular cafe data, this work can be extended to price any product.

PED - price elastcity of demand is an economic measure to show the responsiveness / elasticity of a good or service when there is a change in its price when nothing else is change. the effective desire to get a product as the price changes in general if the price rises desire decreases (luxury goods and essential items tend to sit outside this the latter up to a point). % change in quantity demand for 1% increase in price. Mathematically speaking % change in quantity demand (q) divided by the % change in price (p)

In this work, we shall look at the sales of the items of a cafe. This cafe sells burgers, coke, lemonade and coffee. As a data scientist, it is our task to figure out the optimal prices to set for these items. If the price is set too high, the sales will drop & the price is set to low, then the margins will decrease. What is the sweet spot that will give us the maximum profit?
